Josh Davis: Can I get a quick mic check, please?
Justin Florentine (Besu): You sound great.
stokes: Hello.
stokes: Let's see. Maybe one more minute, and then we'll get started.
stokes: Okay, Josh, are you helping with the stream? And if so, I'm ready when you are.
Josh Davis: Awesome. You are alive!
stokes: Hey everybody, welcome to ACDC number 175. This is issue 19-30 in the PM repo.
stokes: I'll drop a link to the agenda here.
stokes: In the Zoom chat, and… yeah, the agenda is pretty light today.
stokes: I think in large part, because the topic of the hour, the PBS dubnets, a lot of that's moved to ACDT.
stokes: At least while we're working on the implementations.
stokes: But yeah, that being said, let's go ahead and get into it, and yeah, maybe other topics will come up as we go. So…
stokes: Right. First step, Glamsterdam.
stokes: And like I said, topic of the hour, ePBS DevNet Zero, it sounds like, from ACDT this week, client teams are thinking.
stokes: You know, we probably want another week or two, to get to that first step nut.
stokes: Yeah, any, any fun updates since then worth sharing?
stokes: Paris says here, Kurtosis config with Lighthouse working.
stokes: Yeah, maybe you could say a little bit more. Does that mean, like…
stokes: The whole thing is working, or maybe just a part.
Parithosh Jayanthi: Pk's been looking into it, do you wanna give an update on that, PK?
pk910: what, sorry?
Parithosh Jayanthi: the Lighthouse ePBS DevNet that you were testing locally with Kurtosis?
pk910: Yeah, I'm just running it locally, looks pretty nice so far, yet,
pk910: I don't really have any updates so far,
pk910: I just noticed a few bugs so far, so,
pk910: Blocks are mostly empty, but, yeah, they… this looks…
pk910: It looks, pretty minor bugs so far.
stokes: Okay, that's good news.
stokes: And yeah, you know, once we have another…
stokes: one or two more clients, then we'll kind of have a stable core for DevNet, and we can keep moving forward there.
stokes: Any other client teams, or yeah, Lighthouse even, if you'd like to say more. Yeah, any other client teams, would you like to give an update on ePBS progress?
Parithosh Jayanthi: We expect that by next week, we have at least a second client. I think once we have two
Parithosh Jayanthi: maybe 3 clients were ready to launch the DevNet.
Parithosh Jayanthi: And that way, we'd still hit the end of February target for that.
stokes: Okay, yeah, Lighthouse saying…
stokes: There is a single client demo that they have, but a bit hacky, ready in a week or two.
stokes: Teku says, ready for next week? Okay, so yeah, get in there.
stokes: Ready for next week, you know, to try a DevNet.
stokes: And yeah, update from Prism here, a few more PRs to work through.
stokes: But okay, yeah. Yeah, generally, that's all good news. Nice work, everyone.
stokes: And… Excuse me. Yeah. So…
stokes: you know, we had said, yeah, something like end of, this month would be good, and it seems like we're more or less on track for that.
stokes: So…
stokes: let's just, keep… keep moving forward, and we'll get to a .NE Zero. And I do hope from there, you know, it's,
stokes: Also pretty straightforward, too.
stokes: get to future DevNuts.
stokes: I would expect the bulk of the work is getting to Demo Zero.
stokes: But yeah, we'll see how it goes.
stokes: Okay, any other comments on ePBS DevNet Zero, the DevNet Zero spec?
stokes: is Alpha 2, I believe, in the Consumer Specs repo.
stokes: There have been a few other little things that have come through, but those will be for future devnets.
stokes: So, yeah.
stokes: Anything there? Any questions? Any difficulties you run into as you're implementing?
stokes: Anything we should discuss now?
stokes: Okay?
stokes: Then, happy ePBS.
stokes: And, I suppose then we'll check in on Monday.
stokes: Trent's asking, was there a decision made on the variable PTC? Yeah, that's what Justin's saying here. The PR is still open,
stokes: I don't have a link to it, but yeah, that's something. But that being said, yeah, I mean, that is probably the last big open spec question, but also we can make progress,
stokes: With these other dev notes, before having to resolve that.
stokes: So, still something to have on the back of our minds, but, not necessarily blocking at the moment.
stokes: But since we brought it up, were there any questions on here we should discuss now?
Justin Traglia: Like, regarding the PTC deadline PR.
stokes: Yeah.
stokes: Like, is… yeah, is this PR ready to go?
stokes: Are there other, you know, are there questions we need to talk through?
Justin Traglia: For that PR, I don't know.
stokes: Okay.
Justin Traglia: Jesco is leading it.
stokes: Yeah.
stokes: It's been a little busy with East Denver, so I also have not had time to look at this too deeply yet.
stokes: But yeah, okay.
stokes: Let's just table that for now.
stokes: And… Yeah, okay, we'll keep everything moving forward.
stokes: Was that enough, Trent?
Trent: Yeah, no, I was just curious.
stokes: Yeah, okay.
stokes: My understanding is we're leaning towards it, assuming we can figure out, you know, any subtleties that might come up with it.
stokes: Okay.
stokes: Then, we'll move on to… oh, Hegota.
stokes: And… From there, so… yeah.
stokes: Today, we will pick the headliner.
stokes: We, essentially had our, deadline…
stokes: I'm just checking the calendar again. Yeah, so, last ACDC.
stokes: Essentially, you had data proposals together. What we got to were two headliner proposals for Hegota.
stokes: And let me just grab this link to Ethan Magicians.
stokes: So you have them here.
stokes: And there it was… EIP7805, which is FOCIL.
stokes: And then a proposal for partial reconstruction in 2D PeerDAS. So…
stokes: We had those proposals, and following the process that we currently have.
stokes: Essentially, yeah, we would go ahead and pick the headliner today.
stokes: These… Yeah.
stokes: I think… I think that's where we're at. I think that's a good summary. So, that being said, let's move forward.
stokes: And, yeah, so, you know, my read here is that most of the client teams, prefer FOCIL as a headliner for Hegota.
stokes: Would any client team, yeah, like to re…
stokes: state that opinion. We had talked about this quite a bit, you know, on previous calls,
stokes: So, I think we're pretty much there, but, yeah.
stokes: There's also a comment here worth calling out, on the agenda. Lido contributors support FOCIL.
stokes: As well. So… Anyone… yeah, so Lighthouse here says, we previously stated our case, proposal.
stokes: I'm pretty sure this is where most people landed, if not everyone, as we were talking about this before.
stokes: So… Another confirmed for FOCIL from Tegu?
stokes: So, yeah, I would move to go ahead and lock in FOCIL as the headliner, with anyone?
stokes: Have any comments before we do that?
stokes: Okay.
stokes: No one's speaking up, but the comments are all very pro-FOCIL.
stokes: So… Okay, yeah, let's do that. So, FOCIL will be the headliner on the CL side for Hegota.
stokes: I will triple check the process, just to make sure I don't do anything, incorrect here, but I believe that means we SFI FOCIL for Hegota.
stokes: And then we would DFI, this 2D PeerDAS proposal for now.
stokes: Yeah. So…
stokes: I think that was pretty easy then. I also think this tracks with, again, not just where, you know, our heads are at here on the call, but also the broader community. There's…
stokes: from what I've seen, yeah, a lot of demand for this. So… Very cool.
stokes: We can go ahead and say the headliner's done.
stokes: And then from here, the… I was actually trying to find this other post. So we had a timeline here.
stokes: Because then we would take until the end of this month to do this headliner process, at least on the CL side. We can go ahead and check that box.
stokes: Well done, everyone.
stokes: And then from there, essentially there's this period for non-headliners, and I think, you know, given where we're at,
stokes: we should probably focus, you know, more concretely on Amsterdam at the moment. So yeah, let me…
stokes: Think a bit about what I'd propose in terms of next steps there.
stokes: you know, for example, I'd rather us focus on, the ePBS DevNets, mentioning DevNets, before going through, like, a huge…
stokes: you know, set of, EIP proposals for Hegota.
stokes: Just given the relative timings of everything. But that all being said, yeah, I feel like we're making good progress with scoping.
stokes: And… then, yeah, we'll keep… keep all the wheels turning.
stokes: So… I think that's all I have for today.
stokes: I'm… yeah, okay, you can do that on Square.
stokes: Okay does anyone have anything else they'd like to bring up right now?
stokes: I think the main next thing was just, you know, as soon as we can get to ePBS DevNets.
stokes: then we can, I think, have more visibility into, yeah, thinking about scooping and timing of, yeah, both Glamsterdam and then also
stokes: Hegota, so…
stokes: Until we're there, I think we're just kind of in a holding pattern. But, yeah. After the call, well, sometime in the next day or two, I'll get up the PR for FOCIL.
stokes: As the headliner.
stokes: And, yeah.
stokes: I think that's all I have, so unless someone else has something else…
stokes: This might be one of the short SCL calls.
stokes: Going once.
stokes: Going twice.
stokes: Okay, well, then thanks, everyone. Yeah, let's go ahead and wrap up, and I will see you all next time.
stokes: Thank you.
Justin Florentine (Besu): Dinosaurs!